Jehovah is on my side.
I will not be afraid."
One of the most encouraging expressions in God's inspired word, Jehovah is on my side.
It reminds me when I was growing up in school.
We would pick teams in the playground to play basketball or other sports, and two students
would be selected as captains, and then they would begin picking alternating back and forth
to make up their team.
One of the captains was usually more skilled than the other, and you always wanted to be
on his team.
If you were picked on his team, that was a good day.
Life was good.
Well our scripture today is telling us that we have Jehovah on our side.
We are on his team.
That guarantees victory, success.
We cannot lose.
We have many beautiful examples in the Bible of those who were victorious with Jehovah
on their side.
David facing Goliath, exciting and resounding victory.
But what about other victories?
What about Stephen facing the mob that stoned him to death?
It may not seem to be a victory at the moment, but where is Stephen now?
A incredible victory for him.
Well this is the result of Jehovah's promise at Isaiah 54, verse 17.
Isaiah 54, verse 17, just the first part of the verse there.
So comforting.
No weapon formed against you will have any success.
So we keep Jehovah on our side.
We win.
Unfortunately though, we don't always feel like that winner.
For some of us, it might happen when we have to wait for Jehovah to answer our prayer.
We might become impatient, begin to wonder if even heard our prayer.
Is he still on my side?
Where is his attention elsewhere?
Or perhaps it's not that we doubt Jehovah being on our side.
We have complete confidence in him.
But when we're awaiting an answer for our prayers, we have laid out our situation before
Jehovah.
Now we're waiting to discern his answer.
And maybe that's not as clear to us as we wish it would be or thought it would be.
We begin to have doubts.
Are we even able to recognize his answer?
We begin to lose confidence not in Jehovah, but in ourselves, in our discerning his help.
So what can help us?
Well, we need to remind ourselves that Jehovah has a bigger picture and perceives things
that obviously we don't see.
We need to keep a spiritual outlook on life and to stay focused on what's really, truly
matters.
When we're caught up in the moment of the anxiety, it begins to look like we're losing.
But even then, Jehovah remains on our side.
He's looking down the path further than we are.
He sees the victory.
So what's the lesson for us?
We need to just calm down and wait on Jehovah.
The victory is guaranteed.
And other times, it may seem that we just, as it were, cannot get out of our own way.
We make so many mistakes.
We're imperfect.
We have a health crisis or time and unforeseen circumstances devastates us.
At those moments, it seems like we're losing.
But wait, wait, Jehovah is still on our side.
He is not looking at the score today as it were.
He's looking again to the future, the final score, to the future victory we will have.
So stay in the game.
Keep Jehovah on your side, trust in him.
Of course, we want Jehovah on our side every moment of the day.
But are there times when we feel that we especially need Jehovah on our side?
Many have said it's times when they have to make a heavy or weighty decision.
They really need Jehovah on their side.
They need to feel the reassurance that Jehovah is with them in their decision.
We need that reassurance to help resolve perhaps some fears that we have that we're going
to make a poor decision.
We're going to have negative consequences due to not making a good judgment or good decision
here.
Or perhaps it's a fear that we will not be able to apply the principles that we know the
principles that bear on our decision.
But how do we apply them?
We struggle with their application.
Do we hope that Jehovah is on our side?
No, we know Jehovah is on our side.
So if we pray and we meditate and we do our research, we can be confident that we can
make the right decision based on his principles, it will be the winning decision.
Do you sometimes feel alone when confronted with a heavy decision that needs to be made?
I appreciated this insight from a faithful sister who said, I found that I need Jehovah
in all areas of my life.
As a single sister, with not having a head, I feel like everything I do or any decision
I make, I need to present it to Jehovah.
And when I do that, I feel like when the hard times come, then I don't hesitate to talk
to Jehovah about it.
So sensing that Jehovah is on her side, she has talked to Jehovah about her decisions.
And then when things don't go so well, she can easily keep talking with Jehovah to work
her through whatever difficulties they may be.
Another situation, suppose our assignment has separated us from our family, we're here
at Bethel, we're in the construction field or a circuit over seers.
Now as time goes on, our family might need extra help or attention or concern.
Are we making the right decisions regarding our involvement in their care?
That's a difficult question.
Well again, we can feel safe remembering that Jehovah is on our side.
He always has been and he will be there at the right time with the right help for whatever
the situation may be, especially for those situations that are out of our control.
He's on our side.
Of course, Jehovah can only help us as much as we let him.
So we need to make sure that we take advantage of his being on our side.
What do we mean by that?
Take a look over at Psalm 25, we'll look at verse 15, my eyes are always toward Jehovah
for he will free my feet from the net.
So now we need to picture our feet entangled in a net that you've been there.
Perhaps it's not a net, maybe you'd get your feet tangled up in a rope or something.
But let's stick with the scripture.
It uses the example of a net.
Picture that and if you're on your own, how are you going to get untangled out of the net
as it were?
Or you're going to look down to your feet and you're going to start to wiggle and finally
free yourself.
But is that taking advantage of Jehovah being on our side?
You notice the verse said, your eyes should be toward Jehovah, not solving the problem
ourselves, looking at our own feet as it were, but look up to Jehovah, past him the
ball as it were.
He's the most skilled player on our team.
Let Jehovah help us.
He can get us untangled from anything.
Now before leaving the subject, remember that Jehovah is not just on your side.
In a more powerful way, Jehovah is on the side of the faithful and discrete slave, our
governing body.
So we stick to them because Jehovah is on their side and they will always be winners.
For example, when the pandemic erupted, we were instructed to stop going to the kingdom
hall.
We were given some direction on our public ministry.
It was radically changed from what we knew it.
What courageous decisions by the governing body.
But Jehovah was on their side.
He blessed the adjustments and we, as an organization, came off victorious.
Certainly, no weapon formed against them will have success.
But there's something even more powerful to imagine.
Jehovah stands mightily on the side of his son, our reigning king, Christ Jesus.
I know all of us would be thrilled to have Jesus on our side, but Jehovah is standing
right there with him alongside our Lord and King Jesus.
Do you see that?
Do you see them teamed up?
Can you imagine the power, our confidence in the future has such power behind it.
It's hard to even imagine to put it into words.
I tried and my imagination doesn't go that far.
So our scripture, Psalm 118, verse 6, what an encouraging text for us today.
Jehovah is on my side.
I will not be afraid.